Blog posts about making Spaces with Streamlit and Gradio (#158)
huggingface/blog: gradio-spaces.md

        <div class="bfc">
            <code>merve</code>
            <span class="fullname">Merve Noyan</span>
        </div>
    </a>
</div>

It's so easy to demonstrate a Machine Learning project thanks to [Gradio](https://gradio.app/). 

In this blog post, we'll walk you through:
- the recent Gradio integration that helps you demo models from the Hub seamlessly with few lines of code leveraging the [Inference API](https://huggingface.co/inference-api).
- how to use Hugging Face Spaces to host demos of your own models.

## Hugging Face Hub Integration in Gradio

You can demonstrate your models in the Hub easily. You only need to define the [Interface](https://gradio.app/docs#interface) that includes:

- The repository ID of the model you want to infer with
- A description and title
- Example inputs to guide your audience

After defining your Interface, just call `.launch()` and your demo will start running. You can do this in Colab, but if you want to share it with the community a great option is to use Spaces!

> Spaces are a simple, free way to host your ML demo apps in Python. To do so, you can create a repository at https://huggingface.co/new-space and select Gradio as the SDK.  Once done, you can create a file called `app.py`, copy the code below, and in few seconds your app will be up and running!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Spaces are a simple, free way to host your ML demo apps in Python. To do so, you can create a repository at https://huggingface.co/new-space and select Gradio as the SDK.  Once done, you can create a file called `app.py`, copy the code below, and your app will be up and running in a few seconds!
```

I think this makes the sentence a little easier to follow :)

> ```

Reviewer 2: Markdown trick if you do this, you will get nicer formatting 😍

```suggestion
```python
```

Would be useful for other code snippets as well.

import gradio as gr
description = "Story generation with GPT-2"
title = "Generate your own story"

> interface = gr.Interface.load("huggingface/pranavpsv/gpt2-genre-story-generator",

Reviewer 2: Please fix indentation

```python
interface = gr.Interface.load("huggingface/pranavpsv/gpt2-genre-story-generator",
  description=description,
  examples=[["Adventurer is approached by a mysterious stranger in the tavern for a new quest."]]
)
```

also consider this alternative for consistency with description

```python
examples = [["Adventurer is approached by a mysterious stranger in the tavern for a new quest."]]
interface = gr.Interface.load("huggingface/pranavpsv/gpt2-genre-story-generator",
  description=description,
  examples=examples
)
```

description=description,
examples=[["Adventurer is approached by a mysterious stranger in the tavern for a new quest."]]
)
interface.launch()
```

> You can play with Story Generation model [here](https://huggingface.co/spaces/merve/GPT-2-story-gen)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can play with the Story Generation model [here](https://huggingface.co/spaces/merve/GPT-2-story-gen)
```

![story-gen](assets/28_gradio-spaces/story-gen.png)

> Under the hood, Gradio calls the Inference API which supports transformers as well as other popular ML frameworks such as spaCy, speechbrain and asteroid. This integration supports different types of models, `image-to-text`, `speech-to-text`, `text-to-speech` and more. You can check out this example BigGAN ImageNet `text-to-image` model [here](https://huggingface.co/spaces/merve/BigGAN-ImageNET) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Under the hood, Gradio calls the Inference API which supports Transformers as well as other popular ML frameworks such as spaCy, SpeechBrain and Asteroid. This integration supports different types of models, `image-to-text`, `speech-to-text`, `text-to-speech` and more. You can check out this example BigGAN ImageNet `text-to-image` model [here](https://huggingface.co/spaces/merve/BigGAN-ImageNET) 
```

I would capitalize Transformers since it refers to a specific library (same for the other ones).

> ![big-gan](assets/28_gradio-spaces/big-gan.png)

Reviewer 2: Maybe clicking the image should link to the demo as well

Author: I'm not a fan of doing it tbh 😅

Reviewer 2: SG. If you prefer not doing it that's good too :)

## Serving Custom Model Checkpoints with Gradio in Hugging Face Spaces

> You can serve your models in Spaces even if your model is not supported by the Inference API. Just wrap your model inference in a Gradio `Interface` as described below and put it in Spaces. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can serve your models in Spaces even if the Inference API does not support your model. Just wrap your model inference in a Gradio `Interface` as described below and put it in Spaces. 
```

Maybe use the active voice here so it is more direct?

![imagenet-demo](assets/28_gradio-spaces/imagenet-demo.gif)

## Mix and Match Models!

> Using Gradio Series, you can mix-and-match different models! Here, we've put French to English translation model on top of the story generator and English to French translation model at the end of the generator model to simply make a French story generator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using Gradio Series, you can mix-and-match different models! Here, we've put a French to English translation model on top of the story generator and a English to French translation model at the end of the generator model to simply make a French story generator.
```

```
import gradio as gr
from gradio.mix import Series

description = "Generate your own D&D story!"
title = "French Story Generator using Opus MT and GPT-2"
translator_fr = gr.Interface.load("huggingface/Helsinki-NLP/opus-mt-fr-en")
story_gen = gr.Interface.load("huggingface/pranavpsv/gpt2-genre-story-generator")
translator_en = gr.Interface.load("huggingface/Helsinki-NLP/opus-mt-en-fr")

Series(translator_fr, story_gen, translator_en, description = description,
title = title,
examples=[["L'aventurier est approché par un mystérieux étranger, pour une nouvelle quête."]], inputs = gr.inputs.Textbox(lines = 10)).launch()

```

You can check out the French Story Generator [here](https://huggingface.co/spaces/merve/french-story-gen)
![story-gen-fr](assets/28_gradio-spaces/story-gen-fr.png)

## Uploading your Models to the Spaces

You can serve your demos in Hugging Face thanks to Spaces! To do this, simply create a new Space, and then drag and drop your demos or use Git. 

> ![spaces-demo](assets/28_gradio-spaces/spaces-demo-finalized.gif)

Reviewer 2: Super nice gif!

> ﻿

Reviewer 2: Please check other blog posts to follow similar format

https://raw.githubusercontent.com/huggingface/blog/master/accelerate-library.md for example. There should be a title specified at the top, the "Update on GitHub" button, and most importantly the author :)

Similarly, since it's markdown, you should wrap code with triple backtick

```markdown
    ```python
    import gradio as gr
    ...
    ```
```

## Showcase Your Projects in Spaces using Gradio

It's so easy to demonstrate a machine learning project thanks to [Gradio](https://gradio.app/). In this blog post, we'll walk you through the recent Gradio integration that helps you wrap your Hugging Face model with Gradio seamlessly with few lines of code, and how to host your model checkpoints that are not in the Hugging Face hub, in Hugging Face Spaces.

> ## 🤗 Hub Integration in Gradio

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Hugging Face Hub Integration in Gradio
```

You can demonstrate your models in Hub easily. You only need to define the [Interface](https://gradio.app/docs#interface) that will include the model name you want to infer with, define additional descriptions and titles, maybe an example input to guide your audience. After defining your Interface, just call `.launch()` and serve your model. You can directly put this in Spaces as well!

    import gradio as gr
    description = "Story generation with GPT-2"
    title = "Generate your own story 
    interface = gr.Interface.load("huggingface/pranavpsv/gpt2-genre-story-generator",
    description=description,
    examples=[["Adventurer is approached by a mysterious stranger in the tavern for a new quest."]]
    )
    
    interface.launch()
![story-gen](assets/27_gradio-spaces/story-gen.png)

> This integration supports different types of models, image-to-text, speech-to-text, text-to-speech and more.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This integration supports different types of models, `image-to-text`, `speech-to-text`, `text-to-speech` and more.
```

    import gradio as gr

    from gradio.mix import Series
    
    description = "Generate your own D&D story!"
    
    title = "French Story Generator using Opus MT and GPT-2"
    
    translator_fr = gr.Interface.load("huggingface/Helsinki-NLP/opus-mt-fr-en")
    
    story_gen = gr.Interface.load("huggingface/pranavpsv/gpt2-genre-story-generator")
    
    translator_en = gr.Interface.load("huggingface/Helsinki-NLP/opus-mt-en-fr")
    
    Series(translator_fr, story_gen, translator_en, description = description,
    
    title = title,
    
    examples=[["L'aventurier est approché par un mystérieux étranger, pour une nouvelle quête."]], inputs = gr.inputs.Textbox(lines = 10)).launch()

![story-gen-fr](assets/27_gradio-spaces/story-gen-fr.png)

## Uploading your Models to the Spaces

You can serve your demos in Hugging Face thanks to Spaces! To do this, simply create a new Space, and then drag and drop your demos or use Git. 

> ![spaces-demo](assets/27_gradio-spaces/spaces-demo-finalized.gif)

Reviewer 2: It would be great to close with a call to action suggesting people to go to hf.co/spaces and sign to the beta if they are not in there already

﻿---
title: "Showcase Your Projects in Spaces using Gradio"
thumbnail: /blog/assets/27_gradio-spaces/thumbnail.png

---

<h1>
    Showcase Your Projects in Spaces using Gradio
</h1>

<div class="blog-metadata">
    <small>Published September 21, 2021.</small>
    <a target="_blank" class="btn no-underline text-sm mb-5 font-sans" href="https://github.com/huggingface/blog/blob/master/gradio-spaces.md">
        Update on GitHub
    </a>
</div>

<div class="author-card">
    <a href="/merve">
        <img class="avatar avatar-user" src="https://aeiljuispo.cloudimg.io/v7/https://s3.amazonaws.com/moonup/production/uploads/1631694399207-6141a88b3a0ec78603c9e784.png?w=200&h=200&f=face" title="Gravatar">
        <div class="bfc">
            <code>merve</code>
            <span class="fullname">Merve Noyan</span>
        </div>
    </a>
</div>

> It's so easy to demonstrate a machine learning project thanks to [Gradio](https://gradio.app/). In this blog post, we'll walk you through the recent Gradio integration that helps you wrap your Hugging Face model with Gradio seamlessly with few lines of code, and how to host your model checkpoints that are not in the Hugging Face hub, in Hugging Face Spaces.

Author: ✅

## Hugging Face Hub Integration in Gradio

> You can demonstrate your models in Hub easily. You only need to define the [Interface](https://gradio.app/docs#interface) that will include the model name you want to infer with, define additional descriptions and titles, maybe an example input to guide your audience. After defining your Interface, just call `.launch()` and serve your model. You can directly put this in Spaces as well!

Author: ✅

```
import gradio as gr

description = "Story generation with GPT-2"
title = "Generate your own story 

interface = gr.Interface.load("huggingface/pranavpsv/gpt2-genre-story-generator",
    description=description,

>     examples=[["Adventurer is approached by a mysterious stranger in the tavern for a new quest."]])

Author: ah I had multiple examples there, forgot to remove the nest when I removed the others. Thanks!

interface.launch()
```

> ![story-gen](assets/27_gradio-spaces/story-gen.png)

Reviewer 2: On top of the images, it might be a good idea to share links to running Spaces for people to try them and motivate them

Author: Sure I'll add it

This integration supports different types of models, `image-to-text`, `speech-to-text`, `text-to-speech` and more.

![big-gan](assets/27_gradio-spaces/big-gan.png)

You can run your demos anywhere, you can put this in Spaces as well by simply committing your `app.py` file. This integration is built on top of Hugging Face pipelines, so please make sure your model supports [pipelines](https://huggingface.co/transformers/main_classes/pipelines.html). But don't worry, we'll cover different ways of demonstrating models.

## Serving Custom Model Checkpoints with Gradio in Hugging Face Spaces

> You can serve your models in Spaces even if your model does not have a defined pipeline or is not hosted in the Hub. Just wrap your application in Gradio Interface as described above and put it in Spaces. 

Reviewer 2: > Just wrap your application in Gradio Interface as described above and put it in Spaces.

I don't think this is shown anywhere above? Do you mean the gif below? Maybe we should put the code snippet

Author: it should be below* not above imo 😅 if you want I can put an object detection code? but I didn't want to make it look verbose. the gif looks similar to the example you sent me back then.

Reviewer 2: I think below is fine :) I was just confused when I saw "above"

![imagenet-demo](assets/27_gradio-spaces/imagenet-demo.gif)

## Mix and Match Models!

Using Gradio Series, you can mix-and-match different models! Here, we've put French to English translation model on top of the story generator and English to French translation model at the end of the generator model to simply make a French story generator.

```
import gradio as gr
from gradio.mix import Series

description = "Generate your own D&D story!"
title = "French Story Generator using Opus MT and GPT-2"

translator_fr = gr.Interface.load("huggingface/Helsinki-NLP/opus-mt-fr-en")
story_gen = gr.Interface.load("huggingface/pranavpsv/gpt2-genre-story-generator")
translator_en = gr.Interface.load("huggingface/Helsinki-NLP/opus-mt-en-fr")

Series(translator_fr, story_gen, translator_en, description = description,
    title = title, examples=[["L'aventurier est approché par un mystérieux étranger, pour une nouvelle quête."]], inputs = gr.inputs.Textbox(lines = 10)).launch()

> 

Reviewer 2: Very nice example

```

![story-gen-fr](assets/27_gradio-spaces/story-gen-fr.png)

## Uploading your Models to the Spaces

You can serve your demos in Hugging Face thanks to Spaces! To do this, simply create a new Space, and then drag and drop your demos or use Git. 

> ![spaces-demo](assets/27_gradio-spaces/spaces-demo-finalized.gif)

Reviewer 2: This gif is a bit slow imo. Maybe we could have 2x speedup

Author: I've just seen it, I'll check if I can speed it up. I just wish there would be an all in one tool, I used multiple tools from mov to mp4 and mp4 to gif and so on :D

Reviewer 3: `ffmpeg` is life

Reviewer 3: ```bash
convert_gif_2x_speedup() {
	filename=$(echo "$1" | cut -f 1 -d '.')
	ffmpeg -i "$1" -filter:v "setpts=0.5*PTS" -pix_fmt rgb24 -r 10 "$filename.gif"
}
```

Reviewer 2: `ffmepg` is love

    <small>Published September 21, 2021.</small>
    <a target="_blank" class="btn no-underline text-sm mb-5 font-sans" href="https://github.com/huggingface/blog/blob/master/gradio-spaces.md">
        Update on GitHub
    </a>
</div>

<div class="author-card">
    <a href="/merve">
        <img class="avatar avatar-user" src="https://aeiljuispo.cloudimg.io/v7/https://s3.amazonaws.com/moonup/production/uploads/1631694399207-6141a88b3a0ec78603c9e784.png?w=200&h=200&f=face" title="Gravatar">
        <div class="bfc">
            <code>merve</code>
            <span class="fullname">Merve Noyan</span>
        </div>
    </a>
</div>

It's so easy to demonstrate a Machine Learning project thanks to the [Gradio](https://gradio.app/). 
In this blog post, we'll walk you through,
- the recent Gradio integration that helps you wrap your Hugging Face model with Gradio seamlessly with few lines of code, 
- how to host your model checkpoints that are not in the Hugging Face hub, in the Hugging Face Spaces.

## Hugging Face Hub Integration in Gradio

You can demonstrate your models in the Hub easily. You only need to define the [Interface](https://gradio.app/docs#interface) that includes:

> - the repository ID of the model you want to infer with

Reviewer 2: Some suggestions based on https://developers.google.com/style/lists?hl=en#capitalization-and-end-punctuation

```suggestion
- The repository ID of the model you want to infer with
```

> - define a description and title

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- A description and title
```

> - maybe even an example input to guide your audience.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Example inputs to guide your audience
```

> After defining your Interface, just call `.launch()` and serve your model. You can directly put this in Spaces as well!

Reviewer 2: WDYT of this alternative?

```suggestion
After defining your Interface, just call `.launch()` and your demo will start running. You can do this in Colab, but if you want to share it with the community a great option is to use Spaces!

Spaces are a simple, free way to host your ML demo apps in Python. To do so, you can create a repository at https://huggingface.co/new-space and select Gradio as the SDK.  Once done, you can create a file called `app.py`, copy the code below, and in few seconds your app will be up and running!
```

```
import gradio as gr
description = "Story generation with GPT-2"

> title = "Generate your own story 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title = "Generate your own story"
```

interface = gr.Interface.load("huggingface/pranavpsv/gpt2-genre-story-generator",
description=description,
examples=[["Adventurer is approached by a mysterious stranger in the tavern for a new quest."]]
)
interface.launch()
```
You can play with Story Generation model [here](https://huggingface.co/spaces/merve/GPT-2-story-gen)

![story-gen](assets/28_gradio-spaces/story-gen.png)

> 

Reviewer 2: Maybe mention something like

> Under the hood, Gradio calls the Inference API which supports `transformers` as well as other popular ML frameworks such as `spaCy`, `speechbrain` and `asteroid`.

> This integration supports different types of models, `image-to-text`, `speech-to-text`, `text-to-speech` and more. You can check out this example BigGAN ImageNet text-to-image model [here](https://huggingface.co/spaces/merve/BigGAN-ImageNET)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This integration supports different types of models, `image-to-text`, `speech-to-text`, `text-to-speech` and more. You can check out this example BigGAN ImageNet `text-to-image` model [here](https://huggingface.co/spaces/merve/BigGAN-ImageNET)
```

![big-gan](assets/28_gradio-spaces/big-gan.png)

## Serving Custom Model Checkpoints with Gradio in Hugging Face Spaces

> You can serve your models in Spaces even if your model is not hosted in the Hub. Just wrap your application in Gradio Interface as described below and put it in Spaces. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

You can serve your models in Spaces even if your model is not supported by the Inference API. Just wrap your model inference in a Gradio `Interface` as described below and put it in Spaces. 
```

> ![imagenet-demo](assets/28_gradio-spaces/imagenet-demo.gif)

Reviewer 2: I would also put this demo in Spaces and share the link. Instead of the gif, I would put the actual code. (it can be a bit annoying to users to have to write all the code they see in the gif)

Reviewer 2: Reopening since I think we should add the code if possible :) (In a way that users can copy/paste it)
